W-19473121-hsa-component-partial-kt (#322)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: hybrid-standalone/modules/ROOT/pages/rtm-agent-allowlist.adoc

= Adding Ports, IPs, and Hostnames for Runtime Manager Agent

Configure network access for the Runtime Manager agent to establish secure communication between your hybrid standalone instances and Anypoint Platform services.

== Overview

To enable Runtime Manager agent connectivity in your customer-hosted Mule runtime environment, you must configure your network infrastructure to allow communication with Anypoint Platform APIs and services. This configuration involves adding specific hostnames, ports, and IP addresses to your network allowlists and firewall rules.

These sections provide the specific network configuration details required for each communication protocol and regional deployment.

== Mutual TLS Authentication Endpoints

These endpoints require SSL passthrough configuration to allow mutual TLS certificate authentication:

* runtime-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com
* runtime-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com
* runtime-manager.gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com
* data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com
* data-authenticator.gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com
* us1.ingest.mulesoft.com 
* eu1.ingest.mulesoft.com 

> Configure your firewall or proxy to allow SSL passthrough for these endpoints rather than SSL termination, as the agent requires direct certificate authentication with Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure your firewall or proxy to allow SSL passthrough for these endpoints to ensure that the Runtime Manager agent has direct certificate authentication with Anypoint Platform. 
```

== WebSocket Endpoints

These endpoints use WebSocket connections for real-time communication between the agent and Runtime Manager:

* runtime-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com
* runtime-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com
* runtime-manager.gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com

> Ensure your firewall supports WebSocket protocol upgrades and persistent connections for these endpoints.

Reviewer: Consider moving this sentence before the bulleted list, so that "these endpoints" follow

[NOTE]
====

> All connectivity requirements are for outbound connections from your network to Anypoint Platform. No inbound connectivity to your network or servers is required.

Reviewer: Consider moving to Overview section

> Runtime Manager agent establishes persistent WebSocket connections that remain active for ongoing communication with Anypoint Platform services.

Reviewer: This also might be a candidate for Overview, not a note

====

== Required Ports and Hostnames

> Configure your firewall to allow outbound connections to these specific ports and hostnames based on your Anypoint Platform region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure your firewall to allow outbound connections to these ports and hostnames based on your Anypoint Platform region.
```

|*EU*|runtime-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com |3.123.216.217
|*EU*|runtime-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com |3.127.253.183 (Starting Feb 2024)
|===

== Dynamic IP Addresses

Configure hostname-based firewall rules for Anypoint Platform services that use dynamically assigned IP addresses.

=== Layer 7 Firewall Configuration

Some Anypoint Platform services use IP addresses that are dynamically assigned by cloud infrastructure. For these services, configure Layer 7 firewall rules based on fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) rather than static IP addresses.

Configure your Layer 7 firewall rules to include these hostnames:

[%header,cols="10a,60a"]
|===
|Region |Hostname
|*US*|anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*US*|analytics-ingest.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*US*|data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*US*| us1.ingest.mulesoft.com
|*US-GOV*|runtime-manager.gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*US-GOV*|data-authenticator.gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*US-GOV*|gov.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*EU*|eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*EU*|analytics-ingest.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*EU*|data-authenticator.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com
|*EU*|eu1.ingest.mulesoft.com  
|===

=== Agent-Specific Allowlist

> Configure these specific URLs for Runtime Manager agent connectivity based on your agent version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure these URLs for Runtime Manager agent connectivity based on your agent version.
```
